<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="generator" content="Docutils 0.3.7: http://docutils.sourceforge.net/" />
<title>The constitution of the NEALT</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="default.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="document" id="the-constitution-of-the-nealt">
<h1 class="title">The constitution of the NEALT</h1>
<p>Version 1.0 (As approved by the founding meeting on Saturday
28.10.2006 in Gothenburg, Sweden)</p>
<p>A printer-friendly form of the text is available in the following
formats: <a class="reference" href="constitution.xhtml">in plain XHTML</a>, <a class="reference" href="constitution.pdf">in PDF</a> and <a class="reference" href="constitution.ps">in PostScript</a>.</p>
<a class="target" id="geographical-area" name="geographical-area"></a><div class="section" id="i-name-and-domicile">
<h2><a name="i-name-and-domicile">I. Name and Domicile</a></h2>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li>The name of the Association is <strong>Northern European Association for
Language Technology (NEALT)</strong>, and its domicile is
Uppsala, Sweden.</li>
<li>The <strong>Geographical Area</strong> of the <em>Association</em> consists of the Nordic
countries (Finland, Sweden, Norway, Denmark including the Faroe
Islands and Greenland, Iceland), the Baltic countries (Estonia,
Latvia, Lithuania) and Northwest Russia.</li>
<li>The <strong>Official Language</strong> of the <em>Association</em> is
English.  Official calls and documents of the
association will be written in English, which is also the language
of its <a class="reference" href="#business-meetings">Business Meetings</a>.</li>
</ol>
</div>
<div class="section" id="ii-purposes">
<h2><a name="ii-purposes">II. Purposes</a></h2>
<p>The <em>Association</em> is a scientific, non-profit and non-political
association focusing its activities especially on the <a class="reference" href="#geographical-area">Geographical
Area</a> and on the languages spoken in that area.  The purposes of the
association are:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li>To promote research and development activities in the field of
language technology, including speech technology.</li>
<li>To promote cooperation and information exchange among related
professional and technical societies.</li>
<li>To represent language technology to funding bodies and government
agencies.</li>
<li>To disseminate information on language technology to the general
public.</li>
</ol>
<a class="target" id="dues" name="dues"></a><a class="target" id="membership" name="membership"></a><a class="target" id="regular-members" name="regular-members"></a><a class="target" id="supporting-members" name="supporting-members"></a></div>
<div class="section" id="iii-membership">
<h2><a name="iii-membership">III. Membership</a></h2>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li><strong>Regular Membership</strong> is open to any individual
with an interest in language technology who lives in the
<a class="reference" href="#geographical-area">Geographical Area</a> of the <em>Association</em> or who has an explicit
interest or connection with the <em>Geographical Area</em>.  Each
<em>Regular Member</em> has one vote in the <em>Association's</em> ballots
and may hold office in the <em>Association.</em></li>
<li><strong>Supporting membership</strong> is open to commercial companies,
associations, institutions and societies which have an interest in
language technology or its applications.  <em>Supporting Members</em>
pay <em>Dues</em> (usually higher than the <em>Regular Members</em>) but they
have no vote in the meetings and they cannot hold office in the
<em>Association.</em></li>
<li>There are two main classes of <em>Regular Memberships</em>: <strong>Normal</strong> and
<strong>Student</strong>.  Student members are eligible for reduced
dues rates. To qualify for the student rate, a person must be
enrolled as a full-time student at a university.</li>
<li>New members are accepted by the <a class="reference" href="#executive-committee">Executive Committee</a> based on
applications.</li>
<li><strong>Dues</strong> for each calendar year are payable upon receipt of a dues
statement and membership will lapse if dues are not received.</li>
<li>Distinguished scholars in the field may be elected <strong>Fellows of the
Association</strong> by the <a class="reference" href="#business-meeting">Business Meeting</a>, upon recommendation by
the <a class="reference" href="#nominating-committee">Nominating Committee</a>. The number of living <em>Fellows</em> shall
not exceed twenty-five; no more than three may be selected at any
<em>Business Meeting</em>.</li>
<li>The <em>Executive Committee</em> shall maintain a list of members. The
list of members shall contain information on the name, address,
e-mail address, and nationality of the members.  All communication
from the <em>Association</em> to the Members is sent via e-mail to the
addresses supplied by the members.</li>
<li>A <em>Membership</em> is automatically terminated in the event of death
of an individual, and the dissolution of other legal entities (such
as companies and organizations).</li>
</ol>
<a class="target" id="business-meeting" name="business-meeting"></a><a class="target" id="business-meetings" name="business-meetings"></a></div>
<div class="section" id="iv-business-meeting">
<h2><a name="iv-business-meeting">IV. Business Meeting</a></h2>
<ol class="arabic">
<li><p class="first">There shall be a <strong>Business Meeting</strong> of the <em>Association</em> at least
every second year, with notice mailed to the <em>Membership</em> at least
two months before the meeting date.  The call will be sent to the
email address provided by the <em>Member</em>.</p>
<p><em>Business Meetings</em> can be held in conjunction with workshops or
conferences (such as NODALIDA), or by electronic means (such as
electronic mail or videoconference).</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">In votings and elections, the alternative which gets most votes
will become the decision of the meeting, or the candidate who gets
most votes will be elected.  If two or more alternatives share the
same highest number of votes, (a) in open ballots, the
chairperson will have the casting vote and (b) in closed ballots
and elections, a decision will be reached by drawing lots.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">The <strong>Agenda</strong> of the <em>Business Meeting</em> is as follows:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li>Election of a chairperson for the meeting.</li>
<li>Election of the secretary for the meeting.</li>
<li>Election of two members to check the minutes of the meeting.</li>
<li>Establish if the meeting has been properly convened,</li>
<li>Presentation of the <em>President's</em> report,</li>
<li>Presentation of the <em>Treasurer's Annual Financial and Membership
Reports</em>,</li>
<li>Presentation of the accounts <em>Auditor's</em> report,</li>
<li>Adoption of the reports and accounts,</li>
<li>Establishing the annual Membership <a class="reference" href="#dues">Dues</a> for the following
two years for each type of Member: <a class="reference" href="#supporting-members">Supporting Members</a> and
<a class="reference" href="#regular-members">Regular Members</a> of two types, Normal Members and Student
Members,</li>
<li>The election of the members of the <a class="reference" href="#executive-committee">Executive Committee</a> of
the Association (including the <a class="reference" href="#president">President</a>, the
<a class="reference" href="#vice-president">Vice-President</a>, <a class="reference" href="#secretary">Secretary</a>, <a class="reference" href="#treasurer">Treasurer</a>, <a class="reference" href="#editor-in-chief">Editor in
Chief</a> and other positions) as needed and on the basis of the
nominations by the <a class="reference" href="#nominating-committee">Nominating Committee</a> and <a class="reference" href="#regular-members">Regular
Members</a>.</li>
<li>Election of one accounts <a class="reference" href="#auditor">Auditor</a> and one <em>Deputy
Auditor</em>.</li>
<li>Any other business which has been mentioned in the call.</li>
</ol>
</li>
</ol>
<a class="target" id="officers" name="officers"></a><a class="target" id="president" name="president"></a><a class="target" id="vice-president" name="vice-president"></a><a class="target" id="secretary" name="secretary"></a><a class="target" id="treasurer" name="treasurer"></a><a class="target" id="editor-in-chief" name="editor-in-chief"></a><a class="target" id="executive-committee" name="executive-committee"></a></div>
<div class="section" id="v-administration">
<h2><a name="v-administration">V. Administration</a></h2>
<ol class="arabic">
<li><p class="first">The administration of the Association shall be the responsibility
of the <strong>Executive Committee</strong>.  The Executive Committee consists of
six members:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>a <strong>President of the Association</strong>,</li>
<li>a <strong>Vice-President of the Association</strong>,</li>
<li>a <strong>Secretary of the Association</strong>,</li>
<li>a <strong>Treasurer of the Association</strong>,</li>
<li>the <strong>Editor in Chief</strong> of the publications of the Association,
and</li>
<li>one additional member.</li>
</ul>
<p>The <a class="reference" href="#business-meeting">Business Meeting</a> elects the members of the <em>Executive Committee</em>.
The new <em>Executive Committee</em> elected shall take office on
January 1st of the year following the <em>Business Meeting</em> and the
term of it is two calendar years.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<a class="target" id="succession" name="succession"></a><ol class="arabic" start="2">
<li><p class="first">The normal <strong>Terms</strong> and the expected <strong>Succession</strong> of the members
of the <em>Executive Committee</em> are as follows:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li>The <em>Vice-President</em> is elected by the <em>Business Meeting</em> for a
2-year term, and after those two years, the Vice-President
becomes the <em>President</em> for the next 2-year term.</li>
<li>The <em>President</em> elected by the <em>Business Meeting</em>, or entered
that position through <em>Succession</em>, leaves that position after
the 2-year term.</li>
<li>The <em>Secretary</em>, the <em>Treasurer</em> and the <em>Editor in Chief</em>
usually serve two successive 2-year terms.</li>
<li>The additional member of the Executive Committee has a term
of two years.</li>
</ol>
<p>If vacancies occur, the <em>Executive Committee</em> shall appoint
replacements according to the scheme of <em>Succession</em> and the
deputies elected by the <em>Business Meeting</em> and these serve until
December 31 following the next <em>Business Meeting</em>.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">The <em>President</em> of the Association shall <strong>chair</strong> the <em>Executive
Committee</em>.</p>
<p>The <em>President</em> and the <em>Vice-President</em> are authorized to <strong>sign
the name of the Association</strong> in all matters, and the <em>Treasurer</em>
has the right to sign the name of the <em>Association</em> in financial
transactions.</p>
<p>The <em>Treasurer</em> is empowered to deposit and disburse funds and to
enter into contracts as appropriate to conduct the business of the
<em>Association</em>. The <em>Treasurer</em> shall deliver a written <strong>Annual
Financial and Membership Report</strong>, to the Association by the end of
each year.  The Association may have one or more <strong>bank accounts</strong>.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">The <em>Executive Committee</em> shall (a) determine the place and time of
the <em>Association's</em> meetings and appoint members to be responsible
for organizing its programs and for local arrangements; (b) select
or approve the editors and editorial boards of any publication
sponsored by the <em>Association</em>; (c) appoint members to various
positions and form committees to assist in conducting the
activities of the <em>Association</em>; (d) collect the <a class="reference" href="#dues">Dues</a> of the
<em>Association</em> according to the decisions of the <em>Business Meeting</em>;
(e) be responsible for a review of the <em>Treasurer's Annual
Financial and Membership Reports</em> before these reports are
presented to the <em>Business Meeting</em>; (f) establish and oversee
<strong>Special Interest Groups</strong> of the <em>Association</em>; (g) fix the times
of the <em>Business Meeting</em>, prepare the agenda and announce the
meetings.</p>
</li>
</ol>
<a class="target" id="auditor" name="auditor"></a><ol class="arabic simple" start="5">
<li>There shall be an accounts <strong>Auditor</strong> elected by the <em>Business
Meeting</em> and a <strong>Deputy</strong>.  The duty of the <em>Auditor</em> is to
consider the <em>Treasurer's Annual Financial and Membership Reports</em>
and to review the financial state of the <em>Association</em>, in
preparation for the <em>Business Meeting</em>.</li>
</ol>
<a class="target" id="accounting-period" name="accounting-period"></a><ol class="arabic simple" start="6">
<li>The <strong>Accounting Period</strong> is one calendar year.  Balancing of
accounts will be done every year.</li>
</ol>
<a class="target" id="nominating-committee" name="nominating-committee"></a><ol class="arabic" start="7">
<li><p class="first">There shall be a <strong>Nominating Committee</strong> consisting of the two
most recent <em>Past Presidents</em> not on the <em>Executive Committee</em>,
each serving for the four years following their own Presidency. The
member whose term is about to expire shall chair the Committee. In
case of a vacancy the <em>Executive Committee</em> shall appoint a member
to serve for the appropriate period.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first"><strong>Nominations</strong> shall be conducted as follows: the <em>Nominating
Committee</em> shall nominate (normally two) people who are willing to
serve in each position to be filled at an election at the <em>Business
Meeting</em>. When selecting the candidates the <em>Nominating Committee</em>
shall also consider the balanced representation of genders and
nationalities.</p>
<p>The <em>Secretary</em> shall announce these nominees to the <a class="reference" href="#membership">Membership</a>,
post their names on the <strong>Association web site</strong>, and invite the
<em>Regular Membership</em> to submit additional nominations.  Additional
nominations will be accepted by email, provided that two <a class="reference" href="#regular-members">Regular
Members</a> of the Association second each such nomination and
provided that evidence is presented that such a nominee will serve
if elected.</p>
<p>The nomination has to be completed so that it can be included in
the call for the <em>Business Meeting</em>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</div>
<div class="section" id="vi-amendments">
<h2><a name="vi-amendments">VI. Amendments</a></h2>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li><strong>Amendments to the Constitution</strong> shall be made in a <a class="reference" href="#business-meeting">Business
Meeting</a> with two-thirds majority of voters based on a proposition
made by the <a class="reference" href="#executive-committee">Executive Committee</a> or a group of no less than ten
<a class="reference" href="#regular-members">Regular Members</a>.  The proposition must be included in the
announcement of that meeting.</li>
</ol>
<!-- Proposed Amendments approved by a majority of the *Executive
Committee* or proposed by not less than ten members shall be put
before the *Regular Membership* for consideration. Notification of
proposed amendments shall be mailed by the Secretary_ to the
membership at least two months prior to a vote on the matter.
During the first month after notice, the proposed amendment shall
be open for discussion among the membership.   -->
<!-- After the 1-month period, if the proposers do not retract the
proposed amendment, the Secretary will mail a ballot including
comments designated by members for public distribution to the
membership.  Voting will be performed in a manner specified in the
ballot.  The ballot will be open to all members of the
Association, secret, verifiable, and overseen by the
*Secretary*. The amendment shall be ratified if approved by a
majority of those members voting. -->
<ol class="arabic simple" start="2">
<li>The <strong>Dissolution of the Association</strong> requires a two-thirds
majority of voters in a <em>Business Meeting</em>.  If the
<em>Association</em> will be dissolved, possible funds and property of the
Association will be used in a way consistent with the <em>Purposes</em> of
the Association as decided by the meeting dissolving the
Association.</li>
</ol>
<a class="target" id="default-legislation" name="default-legislation"></a><ol class="arabic simple" start="3">
<li>Items not covered in the present constitution of the Association
will be regulated by laws on free associations of Sweden.  If the
present Constitution of the Association is inconsistent with the
Swedish legislation, the latter will take precedence.</li>
</ol>
<hr class="docutils" />
<div class="system-message">
<p class="system-message-title">System Message: ERROR/3 (<tt class="docutils">constitution.rst</tt>, line 329)</p>
Document may not end with a transition.</div>
</div>
</div>
</body>
</html>
